1. Create a list of topics to study
The CTIA exam has 50 questions across various topics. By creating a list of topics you will ensure that you are covering all areas that might appear in the exam. These include, but are not restricted to:

Cyber threat intelligence in SIEM
Cyber threat intelligence in risk management
Cyber threat intelligence in incident response
Cyber kill chain methodology
Advanced Persistent Threats (APTs)
Indicators of Compromise (IoCs)
Fundamentals of cyber security threat intelligence (lifecycle, types, strategy, capability, framework, etc.)
Steps of a cyber intelligence program
Types of data analysis
Data collection and management
Report writing
Threat analysis process
TI Reporting and Dissemination
2. Schedule your time
Being realistic about how much time you can dedicate to study for the examination will help you predict when you will be ready to attempt the exam. Schedule time off from work and daily activities to study based on your list of topics to be covered.

3. Apply for your exam well in advance
If you choose for Threat Intelligence Certification without attending the Cyber Threat Intelligence training, then ensure that you have a minimum of 2 years of working experience in information security. Submit your application with proof of experience well in advance as the process of reviewal can be time-consuming.

4. Take a look at free resources
The CTIA webpage has many free resources that can help you while preparing for the exam. One such resource is the CTIA Exam Blueprint, which gives you a detailed look into the topics covered in the examination with a percentage of questions dedicated to the different topics. This will help you construct a healthy study plan.

5. Stay focused and alert during the exam
Be aware of the time you spend on a particular question during the exam. With the test being two-hours long and there being 50 questions, ensure that you do not spend more than 2 minutes on every question so that you have time to run through the paper after you are done.

For those who are looking for a simpler option, we recommend getting trained by a Certified EC-Council Instructor. This can be done through any of our training options: self-paced (iLearn), live-online instructor-led (iWeek), in-person training with a master trainer (Masterclass), or through our many global accredited training partners.
